---
title: 'Pitch bootcamp, Manchester – October 2016'
date: 2016-10-22T23:34:30+01:00
categories:
  - previous-events
tags:
  - Manchester
  - bootcamp
sidebar:
  nav: 'home_sidebar'
---

**IEEE UK & Ireland Young Professionals - Pitch Bootcamp Event Report**

University of Manchester - 22-23 Oct 2016

# Background

Pitch Bootcamp is a two-day career acceleration program that brings
together young people (university students, recent-grads and young
professionals) and companies. During these two days, participants dive
into Post-its and work hands-on developing a business model for their
careers. On the first day, Bootcampers are trained to plan their career,
explore their skills, find out who their potential employers are,
develop their Value Proposition and learn how to communicate with impact
and effectively to companies. Those who are planning start-ups also
learn how to pitch their business ideas. On the second day, participants
will pitch themselves and their Value Proposition to the judges and
mentors in order to get feedback on how they can get a job, explore
mentorship opportunities, get an internship or go about starting their
business.

The programme has had a remarkable growth over the past four years with
over 60 editions, 6500+ young people, 2750+ professionals from 700+
companies and helped to create more than 1500 jobs.

# The Manchester Pitch Bootcamp

The University of Manchester Pitch Bootcamp was the first edition of
Pitch Bootcamp in the UK. It was organised by the IEEE UK & Ireland
Young Professionals, in collaboration with Manchester Entrepreneurs, for
the 22^nd^ and 23^rd^ October 2016. This event brought together about 40
young people (including undergraduates, PhD students, recent graduates
and young professionals) and 20 professionals from different companies
(including business owners) all across the UK.

On Day-1, through intensive sessions running from 9 am to 7.30 pm,
participants learnt how to harness their skills and make the most of
their potentials. Through several exercises and workshops, they also
learnt how to effectively present themselves and how to make potential
and impactful pitch in a limited time and structured manner. The last
session on Day-1 was 'Lessons Learned' where two entrepreneurs, the
pioneers of the companies, Fatsoma and Shout, were invited to share
their experiences and the lessons they learnt during their journey of
being entrepreneurs. The Q&A session enabled participants to gain
first-hand information of what it looks like and what it involves to
start a business. This session was so electrifying as participants
engaged the entrepreneurs to understand more about the world of business
start-ups and the difficulties faced in real business world and how to
effectively deal with them.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image3.jpg"/></p></td>
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image4.jpg"/></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image5.jpg"/></p></td>
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image6.jpg"/></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Day-2 saw the participants apply the knowledge and expert advice
received on Day-1 and pitch their plans to professional judges. Each
participant presented to different groups of 2 to 3 judges who
eventually offered them suggestions or any possible contacts they may
need to successfully achieve their business and career ideas. Judges,
where possible and depending on interest in participants, offered to
mentor participants and/or gave their contacts info for future contacts.
There were also networking sessions, purposely designed, to allow
participants to further interact with the judges (professionals from
industry) and other participants. These sessions proved significantly
useful as participants seized the opportunity to make the most of being
in the company of professionals.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image7.jpg"/></p></td>
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image8.jpg"/></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image9.jpg"/></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image10.jpg"/></p></td>
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image11.jpg"/></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# The Role of IEEE UK and Ireland Young Professionals (YP)

The YP affinity group was the main sponsor of the event. This is because
developing young people's skills and helping them make progress with
their career and business ideas, with the help of events like this, is
one of our priorities as a group. The recent Entrepreneurs Open Day held
in London at Greenwich University was one other such event where many
companies were brought together for skills oriented workshops and
seminars.

The YP continues to deliver to the community of young people with
similar events, while building diverse professional networks. We are
glad to make Pitch Bootcamp happen in the UK for the first time along
with our co-hosts, Manchester Entrepreneurs, a group of volunteers from
University of Manchester, and Spark Agency based in Portugal. The YP's
effort was led by the vice chair, Dr Thaddeus Eze with active support
from the chair, Mr Noel Gomes and our Liverpool representative Mr Keyur
Joshi. All three participated in the panel of judges as well.

The event was funded through participant registration fees and support
from IEEE UK & Ireland Section. The Section funded catering services for
the event which totalled £951.30.

# The Impact of the Event

The feedbacks from the event attendees were encouraging. Many of the
participants hadn't heard about the IEEE before and we seized the
opportunity to introduce IEEE and its benefits to a good number of them.

During the planning stage we secured about 40% of registration slots and
restricted it to only IEEE members. We requested that IEEE membership
number must be used to register through the IEEE registration stream and
because the event was highly subscribed, about three participants signed
up with IEEE in order to attend. Two of those attended and we made
contact with them. We introduced IEEE and the YP to them and encouraged
them to make the most of their IEEE membership. We have since added them
to our mailing list.

With events like this, we are hoping that more enthusiasts will join our
team, as members and volunteers to further our goals and commitment to
our members. We hope to take Pitch Bootcamp to other parts of the
Section. Check
[[here]{.ul}](https://www.facebook.com/pg/SparkAgency.pt/photos/?tab=album&album_id=1263754593666985)
for more photos of the Manchester Pitch Bootcamp.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image12.jpg"/></p></td>
<td><p><img src="\assets\images\2016_young_prof\image13.jpg"/></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
