---
title: "From Engineer to Entrepreneur - Event Report"
date: 2017-09-11T23:34:30+01:00
categories:
  - previous-events
tags:
  - Dublin
sidebar:
  nav: "home_sidebar"
sponsors_gallery:
  - url: http://www.awe.co.uk/
    image_path: /assets/images/opd_16/sp1.jpg
    alt: "AWE"
    title: "Gold sponsor"
  - url: https://digitalgarage.withgoogle.com/
    image_path: /assets/images/opd_16/sp2.jpg
    alt: "The digital garage"
    title: "Our supporting partner"
  - url: http://www.ieee-ukandireland.org/
    image_path: /assets/images/opd_16/sp3.jpg
    alt: "IEEE UK and Ireland"
    title: "Our supporting partner"
  - url: http://www.ieee-ukandireland.org/
    image_path: /assets/images/opd_16/sp4.jpg
    alt: "IBM"
    title: "Our supporting partner"
  - url: http://www.joinef.com/
    image_path: /assets/images/opd_16/sp5.jpg
    alt: "ef"
    title: "Our supporting partner"
  - url: https://www.gre.ac.uk
    image_path: /assets/images/opd_16/sp6.jpg
    alt: "University of Greenwich"
    title: "Our supporting partner"
---
by Koushik Kumar Nundy

On September 11, 2017, a talk, titled \"From Engineer to Entrepreneur\"
was organised by the Dublin chapter of **Founder Institute** and the UK
and Ireland chapter of **IEEE Young Professionals**. The event was
kindly hosted by Google at their [European HQ in
Dublin](https://maps.google.com/?q=4+Barrow+Street,+Dublin,+Ireland&entry=gmail&source=g). I was fortunate enough to accompany Matthew Ellis on behalf of IEEE YP
UK&I.

[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-884CN_Lfu2w/WdexOE6D0mI/AAAAAAAA61A/pbK65rXkOtodCffdxMI3FsV3var0m8tBwCKgBGAs/s400/IMG_20170911_194301.jpg)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-884CN_Lfu2w/WdexOE6D0mI/AAAAAAAA61A/pbK65rXkOtodCffdxMI3FsV3var0m8tBwCKgBGAs/s1600/IMG_20170911_194301.jpg)<br>
_The wonderful audience_
  
The event started off with the wonderful [**Patricia
Scanlon**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/patricia-scanlon-9190429/), CEO
of [Soapbox,](http://www.soapboxlabs.com/) who walked us through her
journey as a researcher, an intra-preneur and then an entrepreneur.

[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-epRygHqUJnU/WdeyFJK0r5I/AAAAAAAA61M/dnCZ5d3WnPsbc_zez4s-HFIG8hNBXZwgQCKgBGAs/s400/IMG_20170911_194801.jpg)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-epRygHqUJnU/WdeyFJK0r5I/AAAAAAAA61M/dnCZ5d3WnPsbc_zez4s-HFIG8hNBXZwgQCKgBGAs/s1600/IMG_20170911_194801.jpg)<br>
_Patricia discusses how she scours the earth for the best talent_

Her definitive work on voice recognition in children sits at the core .
She shared her stories about the trials and tribulations that come as
oft-ignored baggage with the entrepreneurial journey. Her voice
recognition work at Columbia University, IBM, Alcatel-Lucent(Bell Labs)
and Trinity College Dublin provided for a compelling story, and prepared
her for the road ahead, where her work at Soapbox has acquired several
laurels, [including a \$1.2 million seed funding earlier this
year.](https://www.siliconrepublic.com/start-ups/soapbox-labs-elkstone-astia-angels)

The old adage that children are often seen, not heard, is brought back
into harsh focus, when we realise that the vast array of
voice-recognition and control platforms, from Google\'s Assistant to
Amazon\'s Alexa, are so attuned to adult voices, but perform
horrendously when presented with a child.
[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-Rpr0YHnHYd8/Wde0HYJQ1lI/AAAAAAAA61c/ZtJr25zElrEJt-a6sTy6SDj-ZWkHg06pgCKgBGAs/s400/IMG_20170911_201127.jpg)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-Rpr0YHnHYd8/Wde0HYJQ1lI/AAAAAAAA61c/ZtJr25zElrEJt-a6sTy6SDj-ZWkHg06pgCKgBGAs/s1600/IMG_20170911_201127.jpg)<br>
_This is the founder you have been looking for\..._

We also got a peek into the investment opportunities and collaborations
she was able to leverage, including support from Enterprise Ireland and
the spinning-in of Soapbox Labs into the Learnovate Centre at Trinity
College Dublin.

She spoke about the myriad relationships, amongst all of the
stakeholders, the investors, the employees, the clients and
collaborators and how it all comes together to solve anything from a
customer pain point to core speech engineering issues, or to even ensure
that there was always money in the bank for keeping the lights on.

While I was writing this article, Patricia [showed up on the news
again](https://www.siliconrepublic.com/machines/soapbox-labs-voice-patricia-scanlon-inspirefest-2017)
for her talk at InspireFest2017!

Patricia was followed by the delightful [Neal O\'
Gorman](https://www.linkedin.com/in/nealogorman/).


Having graduated from Electronic Engineering in University College
Dublin, Neal has gone on to become a serial entrepreneur with Artomatix
being the 3rd company he has founded -- the first was acquired by
Agilent Technologies in 2006. His second company was a social games
company that had an acquisition offer from one of the top social games
companies in the world. Neal is also the Director of the Dublin Chapter of Founder Institute.

Neal spoke about the challenges faced by engineers, when they set off on
an entrepreneurial path.

[![](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-KkzbV0_I6AU/WdexOMWPwgI/AAAAAAAA61A/XzyZs8nlVz0l1r074b4FCCODYTu1BCzBwCKgBGAs/s400/IMG_20170911_205059.jpg)](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-KkzbV0_I6AU/WdexOMWPwgI/AAAAAAAA61A/XzyZs8nlVz0l1r074b4FCCODYTu1BCzBwCKgBGAs/s1600/IMG_20170911_205059.jpg)<br>
_Neal talks about the Founder Institute_

Some interesting misconceptions are widely observed when we look at why
people want to get into the \"start up game\". They range anywhere from
being a \"get-rich-quickly\" scheme, the ability to control your hours,
to \"being your own boss\".

Neal stressed on the importance of perseverance, and abandoning your
comfort zone. The zero salary periods, the work-life balance, and need
to be planned and accounted for.

He mentioned how being away from home helped in his journey, as social
and personal commitments and startup duties are always competing for the
same scarce resource that is time.

He spoke about not getting too attached to an idea, identifying the
right problem, building the right team, having that insane degree of
commitment.

[![](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-S_XeudMo71E/WdexOCENK6I/AAAAAAAA61A/nGBS1AhRh2wb9UCB3opV_P7Q20SZKX1WACKgBGAs/s400/IMG_20170911_205732.jpg)](https://2.bp.blogspot.com/-S_XeudMo71E/WdexOCENK6I/AAAAAAAA61A/nGBS1AhRh2wb9UCB3opV_P7Q20SZKX1WACKgBGAs/s1600/IMG_20170911_205732.jpg)<br>
_\"Few startups succeed, and fewer ever turn a profit\" - Neal_-

Once the speakers were done, the audience got a chance to mingle with
each other and get 1-on-1s with the speakers.

[![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-rgUyxlLbJts/WdexOGXOCuI/AAAAAAAA61A/ku4REaRzDaUgPAetZlRqdhRw6K8sD86JwCKgBGAs/s400/IMG_20170911_194333.jpg)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-rgUyxlLbJts/WdexOGXOCuI/AAAAAAAA61A/ku4REaRzDaUgPAetZlRqdhRw6K8sD86JwCKgBGAs/s1600/IMG_20170911_194333.jpg)<br>
_Neal and Patricia comparing notes!_

[![](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-vxe57EJT4XU/Wdez0bolOGI/AAAAAAAA61Y/6HPF9BSgkOAR9ZQv0oyUvtiPS18GvEM3gCKgBGAs/s400/IMG_20170911_213345.jpg)](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-vxe57EJT4XU/Wdez0bolOGI/AAAAAAAA61Y/6HPF9BSgkOAR9ZQv0oyUvtiPS18GvEM3gCKgBGAs/s1600/IMG_20170911_213345.jpg)<br>
_Regaling after!_

Overall, the event was well received, and will hopefully prove valuable
to the attendees planning to set upon their own entrepreneurial
journeys.

**About IEEE Young Professionals**

[IEEE UK & Ireland (UK&I) Young
Professionals](http://www.ieeeukiyp.org/) is an Affinity Group for
electrical, electronics, software and computer systems engineers that
have graduated in the last decade. IEEE UK&I YP is a professional
network that assists with transitioning from university into the
professional world.

[IEEE](http://www.ieee.org/) is the world's largest technical
professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the
benefit of humanity. IEEE and its members inspire a global community to
innovate for a better tomorrow through its more than 423,000 members in
over 160 countries, and its highly cited publications, conferences,
technology standards, and professional and educational activities. IEEE
is the trusted "voice" for engineering, computing, and technology
information around the globe.

**About Founder Institute**

[The Founder Institute](https://fi.co/) is the world\'s premier
idea-stage accelerator and startup launch program.

Based in Silicon Valley and with chapters across 170 cities and 60
countries, the Founder Institute's mission is to "Globalize Silicon
Valley" and empower talented and motivated entrepreneurs to build
companies that will create one million new jobs.

The Founder Institute was founded in 2009 by [Adeo
Ressi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adeoressi) and [Jonathan
Greechan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jonathangreechan). It is operated
out of Palo Alto, California.