---
title: 'IEEE Region 8 Student & Young Professionals Congress (SYP), Porto – July 2018'
date: 2018-07-25 20:14
category: previous-events
tags:
  - Porto
  - congress
sidebar:
  nav: 'home_sidebar'
---

The biennial IEEE Region-8 Congress was an excellent opportunity to
share knowledge and experience the largest event held under the umbrella
of IEEE across the region, for young professionals and students alike.
This year the funded participants were carefully selected in order to
give new yet actively engaged volunteers an opportunity to witness truly
remarkable organisation of an event at such a large scale as well as to
be a part of the same. A team of volunteer representatives from IEEE UK
& Ireland Young Professionals, namely Dr. Keyur H. Joshi from Liverpool,
Mr. Opeyemi Ajibola from Leeds, Mr. Koushik Kumar Nundy from Dublin and
Mr. Daniel Perez Martins from Waterford participated in the event,
sharing overall experience of their maiden IEEE SYP congress
participation with this report.

<figure>
	<img src="/assets/images/2018_syp/image1.png">
</figure>

The 2018 edition of this event took place in the warm and welcoming
coastal city of Porto, North West of Portugal with a finely crafted
scheduling of the events and programme agenda, which started with ice
breaking activities like sunset on the beach on inaugural day.
Eventually, as the days passed the congress built up towards
fully-fledged technical and professional development routine, followed
by dinner events giving a wonderful idea about the local culture and
cuisine both. Each day of the full 5 days congress was so carefully
designed that it kept the participants on their toes for the next
session and looking forward to that.

The way the whole congress was announced open in an energetic welcome
note from the organising team lead by chairperson José Pinto well
delivered the full picture of what lied ahead in store for the
participants in next few days of the biggest professional IEEE
congregation of students and recent graduates regionally. The energy,
the hard work, the vibes that were felt across the auditorium from those
who had worked their days and nights to materialise the event was
clearly visible and was probably the best thing a new volunteer must
feel to be inspired and encouraged in similar pursuits of large scale
events.

All the days were carefully scheduled to give participants a variety of
activities, ranging from workshops and plenary sessions to Key Notes and
coffee breaks in parallel with career fairs and Poster presentations.
The key thing was the good balance of technical and non-technical
activities and right proportion of social and professional development
sessions throughout the course of this event. The most interesting part
that we witnessed as group of volunteers, who also run and organise
events at their section level, was the real-time problem solving that
these organising committee of the congress had showcased. Even if there
were any small instances of unexpected disruptions or flaws the
organising team did an exceptional job to ensure that the show, not only
goes on, but also goes on very well-coordinated.

Besides all the learning received in various workshops attended, the key
takeaways were the industrial visits made during the congress, including
at the international nanotechnology laboratory in Braga, the young
professionals training, and indeed the hospitality that we received
during the course of our stay at the congress. The networking with the
leadership personnel of IEEE, the region-8 and new global contacts we
made, during these 5 days of congress, would be contributing to the
lifelong memories from Portugal.

Truly a phenomenal experience beyond borders and among the diverse
groups sharing a common passion to enhance and foster the engineering
sense and capabilities.
